    === Contributing to ufw ===

* General Conventions

Contributions to ufw are highly welcome.  Be it new features, bug fixes,
improvements with respect to  portability, new tests, more documentation
and more. For  code consistency, please try to use  the same conventions
as are used in the rest of the ufw codebase. To help with that, the pro-
ject contains a  clang-format configuration that gets  the basics right.
Note that sometimes human intervention is required, even with clang-for-
mat in play,  especially when it comes to  aligning complex expressions.
Also note that  contributions do get reviewed before  inclusion. You may
be asked  to rework parts of  your contribution. Make sure  you are okay
with that before investing time.


* Certify your work by adding a Signed-off-by: line

** Reasoning

To improve tracking of who did  what, we've borrowed the "sign-off" pro-
cedure from the Linux kernel and  Git projects on patches that are being
emailed around. Although core Git is a  lot smaller project it is a good
discipline to follow it.

The sign-off statement  is a simple line  at the end of  the commit mes-
sage, which certifies  that you wrote it or otherwise  have the right to
pass it on as an open-source patch.  The rules are pretty simple: If you
can certify the below D-C-O:

** Developer's Certificate of Origin 1.1

By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

a. The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I have the
   right to  submit it under  the open  source license indicated  in the
   file; or

b. The contribution is based upon previous  work that, to the best of my
   knowledge, is covered under an  appropriate open source license and I
   have  the  right  under  that   license  to  submit  that  work  with
   modifications, whether created  in whole or in part by  me, under the
   same open  source license (unless  I am  permitted to submit  under a
   different license), as indicated in the file; or

c. The contribution was provided directly to me by some other person who
   certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified it.

d. I  understand and agree  that this  project and the  contribution are
   public and that a record  of the contribution (including all personal
   information I  submit with it,  including my sign-off)  is maintained
   indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with this project or
   the open source license(s) involved.

…then you just add a line saying:

#+BEGIN_EXAMPLE
Signed-off-by: Random J Developer <random@developer.example.org>
#+END_EXAMPLE

This line  can be automatically added  by Git if you  run the git-commit
command with the -s option.

Notice that you  can place your own Signed-off-by:  line when forwarding
somebody else's  patch with the  above rules  for D-C-O. Indeed  you are
encouraged to do so. Do not forget  to place an in-body "From: " line at
the beginning to  properly attribute the change to its  true author (see
above).

** Real Name

Also notice that a real name  is used in the Signed-off-by: line. Please
don't hide your real name.

** Commit Trailers

If you like, you can put extra tags at the end:

- `Reported-by:` is  used to credit someone  who found the bug  that the
  patch attempts to fix.

- `Acked-by:` says  that the person who  is more familiar with  the area
  the patch attempts to modify liked the patch.

- `Reviewed-by:`,  unlike the  other tags,  can only  be offered  by the
  reviewer and means that she is  completely satisfied that the patch is
  ready for  application. It  is usually offered  only after  a detailed
  review.

- `Tested-by:` is used to indicate that the person applied the patch and
  found it to have the desired effect.

You can also create your own tag  or use one that's in common usage such
as "Thanks-to:", "Based-on-patch-by:", or "Mentored-by:".
